This site contains the source code used in my models of rat renal epithelia, renal tubule segments,
multisegmental nephron components, and the blood vessels (vasa rectae) used to formulate a full
kidney model.  The four directories are named to indicate their content.  All of the code is Fortran,
and the bulk of it is the Fortran-77 standard.  Most the code has been used in published models over 
more than 3 decades.  References to those pulications is provided in REFERENCES. 

Epithelia:  These models are of an epithelium between two well-mixed mucosal (luminal) and 
serosal (peritubular) compartments.  The epithelium itself is comprised of well-mixed cellular
and lateral intercellular spaces (LIS).  Model solutes always include a selection from the menu:  
Na+, K+, Cl-, HCO3-, H2CO3, CO2, HPO4--, H2PO4-, urea, NH3, NH4+, H+, glucose, HCO2-, H2CO2.
Model variables are the solute concentrations in cell and LIS, along with hydrostatic pressure,
and electrical potential within each compartment.  For open-circuit conditions, transepithelial
electrical PD is an additional variable.  

The code for all these models follows a very standard format: The main programs are all named
"comp.f", and they read in luminal and peritublar bath conditions.  A "pset.f" subroutine provides
the structural and biophysical model parameters.  The "errvec.f" subroutine contains the conservation
equations and pH equilibria, and assesses the accuracy of the values assigned to the model variables.  
Then comp.f asks for repeated calls to errvec.f to compute a Jacobian of errors, as a function of 
the guesses.  A linear equation solver, "les.f", is then invoked for a Newton correction.  Upon 
solution of the model equations, results are output by a number of "resul.f" routines.  These codes 
provide for both steady-state and time-dependent versions of a problem. 

Beyond simple diffusion, the membrane transporters can be assigned to channels, cotransporters,
and ATP-dependent pumps.  The distinction among the renal epithelia is in the parameter sets.  
Some of the cotransporters have been provided with their own kinetic models (binding-translocation-
and unbinding sequences), so that these appear as additional subroutine calls.  Abbreviations 
used to designate the renal epithelia are:

	pct-	proximal convoluted tubule
	pst-	proximal straight tubule
	  sfpct and sfpst or jmpct and jmpst distinuish superficial and juxtamedullary epithelia
	sdhl-	descending Henle limb, associated with superfial nephrons 
	ldhlu-	descending Henle limbs of juxtamedullary nephrons (outer medullary segment)
	ldhll-	descending Henle limbs of juxtamedullary nephrons (inner medullary segment)
	tahl-	thin ascending Henle limb of juxtamedullary nephrons (inner medulla)
	ahlm-	thick ascending Henle limb within the outer medulla
	ahlc-	thick ascending Henle limb within the cortex
	dct-	distal convoluted tubule
	cnt-	connecting segment
	cct-	cortical collecting duct
	omct-	outer medullary collecting duct (historical value, as the basis for early publications)
	ompct-	outer medullar collecting duct, which includes the principal cells of that segment
	imct-	inner medullary collecting duct

Each directory contains utility programs to provide a number of parameter sets ("pcr.f"), or to
generate boundary data for examining a range of bath conditions ("bcr.f").  It also contains other
utilities to extract specified data interactively, from an output file ("rewr.f"). 

As subdirectories to pct and dct, there are "control" directories, which contain programs similar
to the parent directory, but in which membrane transporter densities are allowed to vary as 
functions of cytosolic conditions (e.g. concentrations of Na+ or Cl-, cytosolic pH, or cell volume).  
As subdirectories to cnt and cct, there are "ttkg" directories, which contain programs similar to
the parent directory, but in which luminal K+ concentration is an additional model variable,
and the model equation corresponds to zero net K+ transport (adding transcellular and paracellular
fluxes).  This luminal concentration corresponds to the clinically determined TTKG.


Tubules:  Each of the epithelia has been rolled into a tubule segment, and these models provide
solutions for the differential equations describing luminal urine flow.  In each segment, the
initial luminal composition is provided, and then the luminal, cellular, and interspace conditions
are solved along the segment.  Peritubular conditions are uniform and fixed.  The differential
equations are differenced either as centered schemes, or as backward schemes when stiffness
issues were encountered.  In the intact kidney, cnt segments coalesce in a 5-to-1 ratio (i.e.
5 times as many dct as cct), and the imct coalesce in a 64-to-1 ratio (i.e. 64 times as many
omct as papillary collecting ducts). For both cnt and imct, the code provides for solution of 
either isolated segments, or for the full ensemble of coalescing tubules. 

There are subdirectories that correspond to special features of their respective tubule models.
Within pctub, the "torque" directory holds the modification in which luminal fluid flow velocity
(i.e. brush border drag) modulates the density of both luminal and peritubular membrane transporters.
This feature was carried into subsequent work, specifically the multisegment codes of pnahl and nephron.
The subdirectory "torque/outlet" solves a boundary-value problem, in which initial conditions are
specified, except for luminal hydrostatic pressure; rather, end-luminal pressure satisfies an
hydraulic resistance condition.  Within dctub, the "control" directory allows for transporter density
to vary as a function of cytosolic conditions (as in the epithelial directory, "dct/control").


Multiseg:  These are directories containing concatenated tubule models representing nephron regions
of a single rat kidney.  The flows of each region are for the full ensemble of tubules.

	micropunc-  concatenated dctub and cntub, corresponds to rat distal micropuncture locus
	ahlmc-	concatenated ahlmtub and ahlctub, simulates the full ascending Henle limb
	dn-	all segments of the rat kidney from dct through imct
	ahldn-	all segment from ahlm through imct
	pnahl-	segments from pct through ahlc, with modulation of initial flow by tubuloglomerular feedback
	nephron-  complete ensemble of nephrons, indluding tubuloglomerular feedback


Vessels:  These are vasa recta models, for which there are no cellular or LIS compartments, but which
represent parallel pathways for transport from lumen to interstitium, across tight junctions and cells.
The directories, "vr" and "vasc", contain code for single vessels (vr) or the vasa recta ensemble (vasc).
The vessel codes have the same structure as for tubules.  What complicates these routines is that luminal
solute variables include an additional 14 species that represent hemoglobin buffering, and this buffering
is also dependent upon local oxygen tension. The difference from one vessel to another is primarily in 
the parameter set, defining its permeabilities. 

	omdvr-	outer medullary descending vasa recta for vessels, which turn in the outer medulla
	omavr-	outer medullary ascending vasa recta for vessels, which have turned in the outer medulla
	oidvr-	outer medullary descending vasa recta for vessels, which turn in the inner medulla
	oiavr-	outer medullary ascending vasa recta for vessels, which have turned in the inner medulla
	imdvr-	inner medullary descending vasa recta 
	imavr-	inner medullary ascending vasa recta 
	mrdvr-	medullary ray descending vasa recta 
	mravr-	medullary ray ascending vasa recta 
